Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to show a drama, fantasy,
and mystery film called, “Homunculus.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In present Tokyo, 34-year-old amnesiac Susumu
Nokoshi is a homeless man living in his car.
He used to work for a successful foreign financial
company, but is now getting by through whatever’s
left in his credit card.
He goes about his day in his car when a young
fellow taps on his window.
It’s a medical intern named Manabu Ito.
Ito offers him an opportunity to earn money
through a human medical experiment, but Nokoshi
flatly declines.
The next morning, Nokoshi’s car is towed
away taking all his belongings with it.
Ito appears and persuades him to join the
experiment again.
Seeing no choice, he agrees.
Later that night, Ito takes Nokoshi to his
medical room.
They will be doing a trepanation experiment,
where Ito will drill a hole into Nokoshi’s
skull.
Ito believes that people only use 10% of the
brain and so he wants to know if this improvement
will help activate the other 90%.
As Nokoshi lays on the steel table, he feels
unsure, but proceeds with the experiment anyway,
seeing that he has nothing to lose.
The next morning, Nokoshi wakes up in his
car as if nothing has happened, but he feels
the wound on his forehead.
He goes to dinner with Ito, where he barrages
him with questions and evaluations.
He bids Ito goodbye and he reminds him that
they still have six more days of observation.
Nokoshi makes his way back, thinking about
his weird situation.
As he’s walking, a gust of wind blows into
his right eye and he covers it, rubbing away
the dust.
When he looks up with only his left eye, he’s
shocked to see the people transform around
him into different shapes, sizes, and creatures.
He frantically wanders around the street with
one eye covered, terrified at the horror he’s
witnessing.
Suddenly, he bumps into a large robot homunculus
that turns out to be a yakuza boss.
The henchmen pin him to a wall as the boss
brandishes his knife.
Just as the boss threatens to cut off his
pinkie, Nokoshi has a vision.
He pleads with the boss to stop what he’s
doing before he cuts his own finger.
The boss stops and starts trembling and crying.
The henchmen are confused and let Nokoshi
go and they scutter away.
Nokoshi goes immediately to Ito and tells
him about what happened and the human-monster
hybrids that he saw.
Ito is excited and concludes this sixth sense
as a side effect of the trepanation.
He asks Nokoshi if he can see him as a monster,
but he only says that he sees nothing because
Ito is invisible.
On the third day, Nokoshi manages to get his
car back and meets up again with Ito.
Ito calls the monsters “homunculus,” and
concludes that the homunculus is how people
see themselves.
It’s a horrific version of them created
by deep stress and trauma.
They conduct more research by going to a brothel,
where, according to Ito, a lot of people have
deep issues and trauma.
Nokoshi sees only one homunculus, a girl with
the number tag, 1775, and calls her a sand
monster.
They follow her to a cafe and Ito quickly
feels a strong attraction towards her and
decides to approach her.
Nokoshi watches the encounter with one eye
and sees the sand being sucked by Ito’s
invisible body.
The girl leaves and Nokoshi confronts a dejected
Ito.
He sees that Ito has red dots all over his
body and he quickly leaves, but not before
handing Nokoshi a cellphone that he managed
to swipe from the girl.
Nokoshi spends the night in his car going
through the girl’s phone.
He learns about her strict parents and the
alternate social media account that she keeps
where she posts about her sexual fantasies
and pictures of self-harm.
Suddenly, some men appear around his car.
The henchmen take him to their boss, who asks
Nokoshi about what he did to him.
The boss doesn’t like to feel vulnerable
so he drags Nokoshi up by the collar, threatening
him with a knife.
Nokoshi then has a vision of his trauma.
It turns out that the boss accidentally cut
off his friend’s pinky finger with a sickle
while they were arguing over a toy.
He ran away and didn’t apologize to his
friend, and this memory haunted him for the
rest of his life.
The boss breaks down as he recalls the memory
and his robot homunculus starts breaking apart,
revealing a fragile little boy inside.
The robot returns to its miniature size and
the boss, as his child self, bows down to
the floor, crying and apologizing to his friend.
He thanks Nokoshi, quits the yakuza and breaks
off his own pinky.
Later that night, the phone starts ringing.
He meets up with the girl at his car.
She asks for her phone and begins taunting
him.
He looks at her with one eye and sees the
sand monster, but as he looks closely, it
isn’t sand at all, but rather millions of
text symbols.
He soon learns that the girl is traumatized
by her strict parents and uses sex to rebel,
taunting virgins like Ito into giving in.
But Nokoshi is no virgin and he pins the sand
monster on the seat of the car and penetrates
her.
The sand-like material starts disappearing,
revealing the cuts that the girl made on her
body.
Nokoshi tries to suck the blood out but she
stops him, sucking back the blood from his
mouth frantically.
The sand completely disappears and the girl
returns to her normal, non-monster state.
The next morning, Nokoshi is shocked to see
that he has absorbed the others’ traumas.
His hand has now turned robotic and his leg
is composed of sand.
He runs to the hospital where Ito interns
and is asked to wait in line.
He then sees a faceless woman.
He falls back, shocked at her face, but at
the same time, he can’t help but feel like
he’s seen her before.
Ito arrives and takes him to his examination
room.
He tells Nokoshi about a woman who absorbed
the homunculi too and then killed herself.
Nokoshi doesn’t want to die seeing these
monsters so he threatens Ito to close the
hole in his forehead.
Ito agrees on one condition, that he tells
him what his homunculus is.
Nokoshi leaves and the memory of the woman
lingers in his mind.
He rummages through his car and finds a business
card signed by one named, “Nanako.”
The memory comes rushing back to him and he
remembers her from an encounter at a bar.
He remembers loving her, moving in together,
and just being with her.
With his newfound memory, Nokoshi traces Nanako
back at the hospital.
He approaches her and it turns out that she
has amnesia too and doesn’t remember him.
To help her remember, he takes her to their
old apartment.
Together they reminisce through their old
stuff as Nokoshi fills in the empty spaces
in her memory.
Nanako breaks down for a moment, but Nokoshi
reassures her with a kiss.
Later that night, the two make love, signaling
their reunion.
Unbeknownst to Nokoshi, Ito has been calling
him all day.
On the sixth day, Nokoshi wakes up with Nanako
in his arms and his own homunculus gone.
As he hugs her, he notices the same wound
on her forehead, revealing that she had also
undergone the trepanation experiment by Ito.
He drives back to Ito’s room but finds him
gone.
He ransacks his office, looking for clues,
and notices a framed family picture.
His phone rings and it’s Ito.
Nokoshi confronts him and learns that Ito
knew about him and Nanako all along.
Ito also tells him that all the homunculus
he’s been seeing were illusions of his own
world.
Before their call ends, Ito tells Nokoshi
that the real Nanako will remember the real
world soon and that sometimes, some memories
are better left unremembered.
Determined to save the love of his life, Nokoshi
searches for the drill in Ito’s office.
Meanwhile, Ito arrives at their apartment,
but this time, a different woman wearing Nanako’s
clothes opens the door.
He smiles at her and calls her by her real
name, “Chichiro.”
Back at the office, Nokoshi drills the hole
back into his forehead.
As he looks at himself in the mirror, his
ability has returned, and once again he sees
his robotic arm and sandy leg.
Nokoshi returns to their apartment and is
shocked to see an unknown woman wearing Nanako’s
clothes.
As he looks closely at her with one eye, the
woman’s face alternates between the stranger
and the woman he loves.
He begs her to tell her who she is and she
admits to killing the real Nanako.
As he touches her, he’s sucked into another
vision.
Chichiro is driving with her boyfriend at
night and after an argument, she tries to
get out of the car.
He stops her and in turn, doesn’t see Nanako
running into the road.
Chichiro is thrown out of the car as her boyfriend
hits Nanako and Nokoshi.
Chichiro watches in horror as her boyfriend
dies instantly and sees the dead body of Nanako.
In turn, Nokoshi remembers his own memories
of that night.
They had an argument and he soon learns that
she had a miscarriage.
She runs outside and he pursues her, but it’s
too late.
They run straight into Chichiro and her boyfriend’s
car.
Chichiro apologizes and tells him her real
name before she collapses.
After tucking her in bed, Nokoshi faces Ito
in the living room, giving him patronizing
remarks.
At this point, Nokoshi feels defeated, now
with Nanako dead, he literally has nothing
to live for.
As Ito continues to taunt him, Nokoshi finally
reveals that his homunculus is water.
At first, it seems like Ito’s invisible,
but when gets nervous, bubbles rise up from
inside him.
Ito is shocked and faces him, denying his
accusations.
As Nokoshi looks at him, Ito’s water figure
resembles his father and a goldfish appears.
He grabs Ito by the arm and sees the visions
of his real trauma.
As a kid, Ito’s father kept a pet goldfish
and paid more attention to it than his own
son.
Ito is starved with love and even colors his
skin to resemble scales.
One day, fed up with his father’s inattention,
Ito deliberately breaks the fishbowl, leaving
the fish to die.
Meanwhile, the grown-up Ito trembles and falls
to his knees, begging Nokoshi to help him,
since he’s the only one who can actually
see the real him, and that he can finally
prove to his father that he’s worth paying
attention to.
Nokoshi tells him that it’s no use, the
homunculus is gone, and that they should just
look at the other person, and create their
own world.
Ito breaks down crying and despite everything
he’s done, Nokoshi hugs him and comforts
him, understanding the pain of not being seen.
On the seventh day, Ito drills hole into his
own forehead and stitch his other eye shut
as he looks at the sunrise.
Nokoshi gets together with Chichiro and even
though he sometimes still sees Nanako, the
homunculus is now gone.